At the end of the last video I mentioned, whether or not it made sense to empty out or essentially
reset the ticket property of this order that is now being canceled.
The reason that this is a relevant question is remember that we are tracking essentially whether or
not a ticket is reserved by taking a look and seeing if there are any orders that refer to it.
Let's go take a look at the code that actually decides inside of our order service whether or not a
ticket is currently reserved.
You might recall that we had written that inside of our model directory in the ticket file.
So on the ticket document, we added on a very special little method.
That we called is reserved.
Here it is right here.
So is reserved.
We are going to invoke that and try to find in order that reference this ticket.
But then here's the critical part.
We made sure that we were only looking for orders that had a status of created a waiting payment or
complete.
So as soon as the order goes to the canceled state.
The ticket that is associated with it is going to be considered to be no longer reserved.
That's going to essentially unlock the ticket inside of the OR as far as the order service is concerned.
That means that we do not need to reset or clear out this ticket property.
And that's actually a good thing because now once an order is cancelled, a user can still see what
ticket it had been associated with.
Just imagine if we had set ticket to know like so a user would then try to look at all their different
orders and we would not have any idea what any given cancelled order was for what they were trying to
buy.
So if we reset that ticket property, there would be no tie between this order and a given ticket anymore.
So a user might just see, hey, you've got like five cancelled orders, but they'd be sitting there
wondering, what were these orders for?
I don't have any information.
And so it's pretty convenient that we decide our is reserved function to allow us to have a canceled
status.
So in closing, we are not going to include ticket of NULL.
Now after setting that status on the order, we then need to save the order.
So we'll do an a wait order.
Dot save.
And then naturally we need to infer, inform the rest of the world, all of our different services,
that this order has now been cancelled.
Well, you might recall that a while ago inside of our order service, we had already put together a
publisher for the order cancelled event.
We put that together a long time ago.
So all we have to do is import that order cancelled publisher into this listener.
And right after we save that order, right after we make that update and cancel thing, we should definitely
publish an event right away saying that this order has been cancelled.
And let's just go take a look at a quick diagram of that.
So we're going to make sure we emit that event.
And right now, we're really just going to worry about making sure that we eventually listen for that
over on the ticket service.
But as soon as we put together the payment service, payment service is going to care about that event
as well.
All right.
So to emit an event or publish an event from inside of a listener, we've done this once before.
Remember?
All we have to do is import the publisher, read an instance of it right here, pass in the net's wrapper
client to really just the Nats client that has already a instance property of our class and that's it.
We can then call the publish function.
So at the very top I will import.
The ticket cancelled or order cancelled.
Publisher.
From up one directory.
Publishers Order Cancelled Publisher.
Then back down here.
We can do a new order cancelled.
Publisher.
We're going to pass in our listeners now a client.
That's this client.
Well, then publish some information and I definitely forget what properties this event is supposed
to have.
Let's definitely do a mouse over and be told what we have to do here.
So we have to provide the ID of the order that's being cancelled its version again for concurrency issues,
and then a reference to the ticket or essentially the ID of the ticket that this order was associated
with.
So I'm going to put in my ID, which will come from order ID.
I'll put in its version, which is older version.
And then ticket.
And ticket is going to be.
The ID and we have to get the idea of that ticket.
Well, remember, back up here when we initially fetched our order, we did not try to populate that
ref.
Remember, we are relating an order and a ticket together through that ref system.
So if you want to make sure that we get our order or fetch this order and also load up the associated
ticket, we do have to chain on that dot populate statement and put in ticket like so.
So now we should be able to reference order ticket ID.
Okay.
Looks good.
Now, let's throw in a wait in front of that Polish statement.
Just to make sure we wait for this thing to be published before finally acting or acknowledging the
overall message.
And speaking of which, let's put that in at the very bottom as well.
So message like so.
Okay.
So that should be it.
That is our listener for the expiration complete event.
Naturally, it would be nice to write out a quick test or two around this because this is a pretty critical
flow inside of our app and we really want to make sure that this event gets processed quickly.
I know that we've been through testing so many times now, and it really might be a little bit tedious
at this point.
Nonetheless, we really, really should test this thing.
We'll go through the test rather quickly, though.
So let's take a pause right here and just nail these tests in the next video.